QUADRAT COMMUNICATIONS 
DESKTOP FONT END-USER LICENCE AGREEMENT 
 
Thank you for purchasing a licence for Toronto Subway™. This
document contains information about the features of the Toronto
Subway fonts.

If you have purchased a licence for the desktop font(s) they may
be installed on Macintosh, Windows or Linux operating systems.
Please check your operating system documentation for information
on how to install the font(s).

If you have purchased a licence for the web fonts they may be
installed on any websites you either own or maintain. Please check
the HTML documentation in this package for information on how to
install the web fonts. Note that the web fonts are for use on
websites only, they will not work on desktop computers.


     HISTORY OF TORONTO SUBWAY 

Toronto Subway is based on the lettering originally used for
station identification and signs by the Toronto Transit Commission
(TTC) in the Toronto, Canada, subway system. The first subway line
opened in 1954. Over the years and subsequent expansion of the
subway, the signs became corrupted by the use of other typefaces
such as Helvetica and Gill Sans. The lettering on the original
signs consists only of uppercase characters and a few bits of
punctuation in two weights — the Regular and Bold.  Their style
was followed as much as possible in designing the lowercase,
punctuation and other special characters.

The Toronto Subway family was expanded in 2014 with the addition
of the Light and Black weights. 

     YOUR LICENCE 

The desktop fonts may be installed on computers running the
Macintosh, Windows or Linux operating systems. The desktop licence
covers using the fonts on all operating systems up to a total of
six computers (or more, if you have purchased a licence for
additional computers). Please read the desktop font licence for
details.

Web fonts may be installed on any websites you own or maintain.
Please read the web font licence for details. 

     CHARACTER SETS 

The Toronto Subway desktop fonts contain an extended Unicode-based
character set that includes support for the Basic Latin, Latin-1
Supplement and Latin ­Extended-A coderanges. The charts on pages 5
and 6 of the PDF file show all the characters in the fonts. 

     STANDARD LIGATURES

All the Toronto Subway fonts contain the  standard ligatures for
ff, fi, fl, ft, ffi and ffl.

     OPENTYPE FEATURES

The Toronto Subway desktop fonts contain several OpenType
features, which you can use in those software applications that
support them. Check your application documentation on whether it
supports, and how to use, the following features.

     DISCRETIONARY LIGATURES
     
In addition to the standard ligatures, all the Toronto Subway
fonts contain the following OpenType discretionary ligatures for
fj, Fi and Ti.

     OLDSTYLE FIGURES
     
Oldstyle figures look better with running text because the align
with the x-height of the font instead of the height of the
capitals. You can use oldstyle figures using the OpenType
proportional oldstyle feature. Type your text normally. Highlight
the text you want to convert to oldstyle figures and apply the
OpenType proportional oldstyle feature. Depending on your software
application you may also be able to set proportional oldstyle
figures as the default figure style. The proportional oldstyle
feature also converts currency and some other symbols to oldstyle
versions.

     FRACTIONS
     
You can create fractions using the OpenType fraction feature. Type
your fractions normally. Highlight the numbers you want to convert
to fractions and apply the OpenType fractions feature.

     ORDINALS
     
You can create ordinal numbers using the OpenType ordinal feature.
Type your text normally. You can use either lowercase or uppercase
for your ordinal numbers. Highlight the text you want to convert
to ordinals and apply the OpenType ordinals feature.

     SUPERIOR CHARACTERS
     
You can create superior numbers and currency symbols using the
OpenType superior feature. Type your text normally. Highlight the
parts of the text you want to convert to superior case and apply
the OpenType superior feature.

     UPPERCASE PUNCTUATION

You can use uppercase parentheses, brackets, braces, punctuation
and @ to better fit all-uppercase text and numbers using the
OpenType case feature. Type your text normally. Highlight all the
text you want to use uppercase punctuation and apply the OpenType
case (sometimes called “all caps”) feature.

     ALTERNATE CHARACTERS

Toronto Subway Light contains alternate versions of P and R. You
can use these versions by turning on OpenType stylistic set 1.

Toronto Subway Black contains an alternate version of J for
slightly tighter fitting. You can use this alternate by turning on
OpenType stylistic set 1.

     ARROWS AND SYMBOLS
     
All the Toronto Subway fonts contain the following arrows and
symbols from the Toronto transit system. Check your software
application documentation on how to access them.


Quadrat Communications 
11 Givins Street 
Toronto, Ontario 
Canada  M6J 2X5 
telephone: +1 416 537 4936 
fontsupport@quadrat.com 
http://www.quadrat.com/ 

11 May 2015 
